# Journal

### Jan. 31, 2025 - 3:32pm

Not a lot to write out for an initial design journal entry, however provided the assigned theme of, "clashing affect and clashing effect", I do want to record some thoughts. Regarding clashing affect, a lot of thrill rides are fundamentally grounded in a clash of affect between fear of something threatening and the triumph of facing and overcoming that fear. This might lead me to consider some of the scarier/intense dark rides on my mediography list like *Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man* (1999), *Revenge of the Mummy* (2004), or *Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey* (2010). I could also look to rides like *Haunted Mansion* (1969) that juxtapose something spooky with something silly or funny. On the side of clashing effects, I'm actually first reminded of a ride that's not in my mediography because it was a rollercoast—*Dueling Dragons* (1999) at Universal's Islands of Adventure, which was two parallel coaster tracks themed around elemental dragons of fire and ice in an aerial dogfight. Considering some of the forceful special effects (fire, smoke, water, air) in dark rides, there might be an interest clashing, either between elements or otherwise between literal "effects".  

### Feb. 6, 2025 - 12:06pm

Coming back to this a week later and not a lot of progress made. I've been reading, but also had some life stuff come up that ate up a lot of time. I think I'll likely move forward with the Quebecois folklore theme I'd initially identified, simply for the sake of staying on timeline.

### Feb. 13, 2025 - 2:24pm

Circling back to this again after a week off because of life stuff and travel. Adding a folder of reference photos/documents to the Bluesky folder called "Ride Systems". I was thinking about what sort of ride system I might want for this ride, and while the Chasse Gallerie legend involving a flying canoe makes for an interesting premise for a ride system, this would place it somewhere between flume rides like *Pirates of the Caribbean* (1967) and suspended dark rides like *Peter Pan's Flight* (1967) and *E.T. Adventure* (1990). Consequently, I did some searching for a ride system that might be able to start as more of a flume-based energy and transition to a suspend system later in the ride. This led me two ride systems, Arrow Dynamic's suspended boat system seen in several coasters like *Iron Dragon* (1987) at Cedar Point, *Ninja* (1988) at Six Flags Magic Mountain, and *Vortex* (1991) at Canada's Wonderland, and the similar but unbuilt suspended coaster system from Schwarzkopf. Both of these systems represent suspended coasters whereby boats hang from the track and are permitted to swing slightly as they follow the track. More importantly, the suspended vehicles look like they could be water-proofed sufficiently to partially submerge them for a flume-like portion, before some scene that sends them flying, making my ride perhaps more similar to dark ride/indoor coaster hybrids like *Revenge of the Mummy* (2004). I think I might want to settle on a ride vehicle somewhere between the two systems as, although the Schwarzkopf system has a long ride car suitable for simulating a canoe, the long car looks like it would preclude tight turns, pushing me ever so slightly towards a shorter ride car like the Arrow Dynamic system. 
